(This project seams dead, however there is a version adapted for sublime)

Bicycle Repair Man, a Refactoring Tool for Python it was based on Don Roberts PhD thesis. "Some of the key ideas are that you need an abstract syntax tree representation of a program and you need a database that can let you answer questions like what is inherited by a particular class"


It is an attempt to create refactoring browser functionality for python. It is a library that can be added to IDEs and editors to provide refactoring capabilities. 
It does its parse and it has an AST

It has this refactorings:
extract method
extract variuable
inline variable
move to module
rename

Bicycle Repair man integrates with emacs, vi and eclipse, and it also has a version for sublime. However this project did not improved since 2003 and seems dead.
It replaces the Python's parser with its own wrapper to be easier to develop the refactoring operations.

"For example, the Python refactoring tool
Bicycle Repair Man
(see 3.3) is
built on a framework which replaces python's own parser module with its own
wrapper, giving a set of higher level tools to the programmer who wants to
implement refactorings. To change the name of a variable local to a module, one
calls the parser function to evaluate the module, then walks the parse tree to nd
and rename all instances of the identier, and re-emits the source code from the
parse tree. All of this requires only a few dozen lines of code. Although native
python does provide basic access to its own parser, the functions in the above
example which rename identiers and re-emit source code were implemented in
the wrapper code. It's not hard to imagine that structured support for these
types of operations in other languages could make both refactoring and smell
detection more easily and widely implemented" in http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.100.6425&rep=rep1&type=pdf



 "For Python, there
is Bicycle Repair Man [1] which integrates with emacs, vi and Eclipse. Examples of some typical automated
refactors include rename, remove or add member methods and variables as well as move member methods
or variables up or down in class hierarchy" in http://www.softerhardware.com/pdf/ip08a.pdf



[1] “Bicycle Repair Man, a Refactoring Tool for Python”, [Online] Available
http://bicyclerepair.
sourceforge.net
, September 2008.